Dear LifeV-ists,

Christope Prud'homme and I have continued the discussion we started last
September on the re-organisation of the LifeV software.

We want to discuss with you the main ideas and the way we intend to
proceed.

We want to reorganize the Library in order to achieve (at least) the
following goals:

1) A more standard type of directory structure (details will follow in a
next message), with a better separation between the core library, the
additional libraries, the contributed libraries and the external
packages; 

2) More standard tool for building the library (autoconf
based);
 
3) Better organisation of testings;
 
4) Support for development environment (e.g. kdevelop) so to ease the
work for the people that will use the library on on short-time projects,
typically students, but not only!

5) Enucleate the interface towards external libraries so that it may be
simpler to change them, if needed.

In order to do so, we will follow the following strategy (see annexed
picture).

A) We will create a new branch of LifeV with the new organisation,
starting from the present situation in the CVS repository. This branch
will be transparent to all but Christophe and I. Not because we do not
trust you folks, but because it is better if only a limited number of
people work on it, as to avoid making a real mess;

B) In the meantime, all developers could continue working on the current
branch, committing all changes that have already been planned. READ
CAREFULLY THE FINAL PART OF THIS MAIL, WHICH CONCERNS THIS CRUCIAL
POINT.

C) Everytime a commit is made we will replicate the changes in the new
branch, testing it.

D) When all planned commits are finished, the new branch will merge with
the old one (this practically means that the old one will disappear from
sight and all of us will start using the new organization). At this
point the current situation will become a stable release, and we will
plan the features we want to add to the library towards the next stable
release.

E) A development branch will be made where all the planned new features
will be added. Work on the stable release will be LIMITED TO bugfixes.


** IMPORTANT PART ***

Concerning the point B above, we need to gather from you some
information concerning the features/bugfixes you have added already (or
are going to add soon) to your local version of the library; and you
have not yet committed into the CVS repository. This is necessary in
order to organize the activity in points B) and C) above and foresee a
reasonable date for the issue of the stable release (point D).

You should tell us what are the modifications you have made in your
local version (or are going to make) and when you plan to commit them
into the repository.

In particular we need to know

-Feature added/bugfix: (brief description of the improvements/bugfixes.
For example: Classes for backward difference schemes.).

-Impact on library: (are you just adding new files or you have modified
existing ones, and if so are the modifications major ones?)

-Expected commit time: when do you think to be able to commit the
changes?

If you made several changes concerning different features you may split
the commit in different 'self-containg' pieces.

This information is essential for us to plan our work, so please answer
as quickly and accurately as you can!


OTHER OPEN ISSUES

* Licence: we need to chose the licens. I would go for GPL, However
Aztec is not under GPL, and probably neither KRM.

* Rules: we have to set up clearer rules for software managemet. We will
make a first proposal for discussion.

ONE LAST THING

We have changed the CVS interface so that you will receive the name of
the author of the commit together with the first 50 lines of the
difference between the committed file and the previuos version.

We are setting up two mailing lists, one for LifeV developers and one
for the general users.
 
Regards,

Christophe and Luca

